From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number one 70 recorded
live Thursday, July 2nd, 2009. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
teller at Reb controls. The
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms and asp.net
web applications. online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net developers journal
the world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. You miss episodes,
God talks with . Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman, and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes. And today I'm
sitting down with Nate cohorting,
who is starting up a
company called  limited and
around an agile project. That's
a Kanban system, Nate. Thanks
a lot for chatting with
me today. Thanks. So I
keep hearing people who are
smarter than I saying Kanban
systems. And it's such a,
such a, kind of a
funny sounding word from a
point of view of an
English speaker. It's a, it's
a new way about thinking
around agile, but more towards
lean manufacturing principles. We had
Mary poppin deck on a
couple of months ago. Talk
a little bit about applying
lean to software systems, and
I've been talking very, very
briefly on Twitter with Kenji
here and Abby, who is
a person who works with
Canavan systems in the agile
space. And you are so
into this that you are
going so far as to
actually launch a product around
Kanban systems. So why don't
you explain to folks what
Kanban K a N B
a N systems are and
what they had to do
with software? Sure. Really combine
originally comes from convenance. I'm
pretty sure that's how you
pronounce it as Kanban, but
you know, not being Japanese
myself, I'm not really sure.
I apologize to all Japanese
people. All right. But it
originally comes from the Toyota
production system and really what
Kanban means is just visual
card. So it's just a
way to create visibility for,
you know, a flow and
a process. So when you
applied the software, typically what
you get is a board.
You know, that looks a
lot like an agile storyboard
that has cards on it
that represent work items. And
so, you know, as the
work is completed or goes
through phases, you've moved the
card slowly across the board
and, you know, indicating process
the disclaimer too, not a
lean expert, I'm not a
combine expert for me. It's
just like a tool that's,
that's useful for, for our
product, the goal with our
products, not necessarily to create
a combine system for the
web, although it works that
way originally, I was just
frustrated with the complexity of,
and costs two of the
existing solutions that were on
the market. And so, you
know, something for small teams,
something that, you know, particularly
for startups, maybe just for
hobbyists too, but can also
scale up to, you know,
medium or larger size team.
I kind of felt was,
was really lacking a lot
of user experience of, of
the, you know, existing products,
which is not really, they're
very difficult to use. And
again, it kind of forced
you down a certain road,
you know, more of the,
the agile methodology, which requires
iterations and things like that.
So for us, you know,
Kanban is just a way
of managing a product or
a project I should say,
and in a very simple
fashion. So what Zen lets
you do is it actually
creates, you know, this, this
Kanban board on the web
and, you know, you can
drag and drop your cards
and move them through, you
know, a phased process. So
I give you an example,
pretty common development process would
be, you know, maybe design
develop, deploy. Okay. So particularly
on the web, if you're
working with, you know, a
creative team, you've got graphic
designers or something like that.
So let's say you have
some sort of feature that
you want to implement you
drag that you'd essentially create
a story card that represents
that work item, like CRC
cards that were familiar with
in the past, right? Yeah.
It's very similar to the
story card and, and in
Kanban, the depends on the
team. I mean, it doesn't
necessarily have to be a
user story itself. I mean,
you don't have to spell
it out as, you know,
as a user or I
should be able to do
X, Y, Z. So I
can, you know, ABC, we
just call them story cards
again for, you know, familiarity
purposes. And you know, of
course you can use them
that way if you'd like,
but so everything is based
around, you know, this concept
of work item or story
card. So if my, if
my process is, you know,
design develop, deploy, I can
create, you know, a backlog
of items, just like, you
know, you're used to with
the typical agile process. And
then when I'm, when I'm
ready and Sam, the program
manager, project manager, I want
to drag that story card
into design, which tells my
design team to go and
work on it. Okay. When
that's finished, they can Mark
it as ready. And so
let's see I'm a developer
now, and I'm looking for
something to work on. I
would then move something that's
ready into the development phase
and start working on it.
So essentially you create this
poll system, which is another
important part of, you know,
lean processes rather than pushing
work, you know, through the
process. So as a designer,
I'm not going to tell
a developer what to work
on it. Developer is going
to pull something from the
available work, right? So the
concept of Kanban is to
create, again, visibility on what
is ready and what is
not, and who is working,
who is not that sort
of thing. So this is
a lot like scrum and
the concept of it. There's
a backlog Q a of,
of a unit of work,
except a scrum is very
much a time box iteration
style system. Well combine is,
is more of a, of
a flowing system that has
no formal time boxing where
a unit of work is,
is the most important. Exactly.
Right? The closest thing I
would say, as to any
sort of time box, it
would be what's called a
minimally marketable feature or MMF.
And really, it's not, I
wouldn't say it's a time
box at all, but it's
a concept that it's, it's
really more like an Epic,
I guess, in scrum, where
you have a collection of
stories that represents something that
will be part of the
product, a feature. And so
the whole goal of Kanban
it's to try to focus
on mentally marketable features and
reduce your stories to be
the same size. And then
you really find that you
don't need iterations anymore. You
don't need to create these
synthetic time boxes. Cause I
mean, you know, if you're
been involved in a scrum
process, it always seems like,
you know, you, you try
to estimate everything. Everything's still
based on estimates. Cause you
have to come up with,
you know, the, the bag
of items that you have
to work on. You know,
this time box and estimation
is inherently flawed and software
it's extremely difficult. I mean,
there's, you know, been huge
books written about it. And
actually the McConnell book software
estimation is basically just a
big collection of things that
you can try, you know,
to try to estimate things.
And the end of the
book is basically like, we
don't really know what works,
just try different things until
you find something. Okay. So
let's, let's, let's reset for
a second and just make
sure that folks are following.
So w with a Kanban
system, your backlog queue is
filled with these, these MMFs
these minimum marketable features that
are, you know, your, the
items, the things that you
need to be working on,
and they sit in your
backlog, then developers pull them
through a process of whether
they're ready, working or complete.
They can Mark them whether
or not they're blocked or
they need assistance. All of
which sounds a lot like
scrum, except it's not, timeboxed,
it's continuous flow of work.
And the, the, the stuff
is pulled through the system.
Now, when I had done
scrum, I'd a tool called
version one, and we had
a pretty large backlog. It
seemed like the system was
designed for me to have
a very large backlog to
have as many things as
we could describe. Almost like,
like the getting things done
style of to do list
management, where you have all
the things you could ever
want and you put them
in the backlog. But when
I read about Kanban on
the web, it says to
have a minimum amount of
marketable features, they really want
the queue. Not very large.
Do you subscribe to that?
Yes, definitely. The fewer, the
better cause really the everything
in lean is all geared
around reducing waste. So, and
there's, there's actually, I th
I believe it's seven different
wastes that they prescribed as
being, you know, counterproductive. And
if you have a lot
of stuff in your backlog,
or if you queue at
all, I'm sure when you,
when you spoke with Mary
Poppendieck, she, she talked about
this also no more queuing
you do, and the longer
things remaining in the queue,
the more waste you're actually
developing, because let's say you
define a user story, you
know, in July. And it
doesn't actually get worked on
until say September. Well, in
the meantime, you know, a
lot of things have changed,
you know, software's changed, you
know, maybe the businesses altered,
you know, focus and shifted,
you know, the goals and
that sort of thing. And
so all of that work
that you spent originally to
define that story is not
wasted. And so you find
that you have to redefine
it. So by keeping your
backlog as small as possible,
you can avoid that kind
of waste. Where is that
information stored about the w
what you ultimately want? I
mean, if you have a
vision for your application, where
do you put those, if
not in the backlog? Well,
actually, it's, it's kinda funny
because one thing that they,
that they being, you know,
kind of lean practitioners prescribe
is that if something is
important, it will continue to
become, you know, present. You
don't keep coming back up.
So rather than creating a
catalog of all the things
that you ever want to
do, you know, with your
product, you'll find that the
important features, the things that
your customers, your clients want
most will continue to reappear.
So these, these MMS that,
you know, again, represent the,
the real features are your
product will continue to, you
know, come back. Okay. The
other thing that, that helps
you avoid is creating unnecessary
work. So rather than adding
features that no one really
is going to use, or
no one really cares about
it helps you focus on
the things that people really
care about, you know, rather
than focusing on the 20%
less, you focus on the
80, and that's another large
waste in, you know, again
in lean ideas, you know,
unnecessary features is the other
thing in lean Because this,
this kind of style of
this Kanban style came from
manufacturing in, at Toyota. Is
it that, that the, the,
the most efficient number of
threads in any system is
one and that they were
trying to avoid people multitasking.
I mean, I believe that
the understanding is that the
team works on as few
of these features as possible.
So as to maximize throughput
and accomplish what they call
one piece flow. Right. Exactly.
Yeah. That's definitely true. And
you can avoid, I mean,
if you, you know, limit
the amount of things that
you're working on at a
time, you can avoid feeling
overwhelmed, or you can avoid
thrashing between tasks, because there's,
you know, just like with
a, with a computer, you
know, your brain has to
swap out information in order
to, you know, keep things
straight. So if you're working
on multiple tasks at the
same time, you lose a
lot of your potential because
you have to context switch.
So if you can focus
and just work on one
thing at a time, you
know, you're, you don't, you
can avoid those context switches,
and we actually would combat.
And lets you do is
again, let's, let's say you
have those same phases, design
develop, deploy. You can actually
set limits on the phases
that, that you have on
your board. So you can
restrict the amount of work
that can be in that
phase at any one point
in time. So let's say
you have two developers, you
might set a limit of
two on your development phase,
it's it forces developers to
only work on one thing
at a time. That's again,
a way to avoid, you
know, creating these, these large
queues of work that has
to be done because again,
talking about scrum again and
not the berate rate scrum
or anything like that, cause
it's very useful. But at
the beginning of the iteration,
I might get, say 10
user stories to work on
or five user stories to
work on, depending on how
large they are. Right. And
so I have to then
figure out what order I
want to work on those
in, you know, and I'm
much more likely to thrash
between them. And so with
Kanban rather than, you know,
focusing on stacking up work
and then burning it down,
which is really what scrum
is all about. Again, like
you said, it's just a
continuous sort of flow through
the pipeline. And then of
course the other thing along
with that is a stop
the line sort of culture,
which is, you know, if,
if something goes wrong with
a task, particularly if you
have limits on your faces,
if something blocks that, that
task you actually, then everyone
should focus on fixing that,
you know, and if there's
additional labor that has to
be applied to it, you
know, you need help from
other sources. Everybody should focus
on fixing that task. So
then you can actually, you
know, Mark each individual story
card as ready and blocked.
And you can give a
reason why not only that,
but we have a messaging
system too, that fires out
emails and IMS and, you
know, keeps people of what's
going on with the stories.
So if you see that,
you know, something's gone wrong,
you can proactively, you know,
respond to it. Do you
know how to make the
possible out of the impossible
while the dotnet ninjas at
Telerik? Do they just released
a huge pack of web
controls, all built on top
of aspirin at Ajax, that'll
help you build impossibly fast
and interactive applications in no
time at all. They've made
the impossible possible in desktop
development. If you think you
can have a carousel component
and wind forms, well you
can. They're windows forms, suite
features a super powerful grid
view control on 32 other
crazy desktop components. That'll give
you a dazzling WPF like
features, but in wind farms,
they do the same thing
in reporting solutions with a
new design surface, like nothing
else looks just like graph
paper gives you advanced page
layout capabilities makes it feel
more like a graphic design
software than a reporting solution.
Go check them out@telerik.com and
be at net Ninja. Thanks
for listening now with scrum
tools. And I use version
one only as an example,
not to pick on them,
but because that's the application
that I used for a
very long time, they have
a lot of additional metadata
that can be attached to
a task so that you
can see your, your velocity.
You can see burn down
charts that show, you know,
the average speed for a
backlog item. There's a lot
of well on its face.
It is a pretty simple
application version. One has a
lot of depth and richness
to it in the sense
that it's got so many
bits of metadata that you
can apply. I've been playing
around with your product called
Zen. And I must say,
it's ballsy to call your
product Zen. I wonder how
you're going to be able
to Google for it. How
are you? It's it's such
a simple, you know, frankly
zen-like interface, but you still
have charts and graphs for
performance. How do you keep
track of things like lead
time and cycle time when
the board is really just
little cards with little bits
of text on it, Right.
Well, you know, as a,
we keep track of, of
the timestamp, you know, whenever
anything happens to a story.
So, you know, when it's
created, when it's moved onto
the board, when it's moved
off to the board. And
so, you know, it's pretty
easy to track things like
lead time, cycle time and
work time, which is what
we call. So, so I
guess for people listening, if
they're not familiar with, with
the different metrics and lead
lead time is the amount
of time between when you
create a work item or
a story and when you
start working on it. So
that's the amount of time
that the business knows that
it's going to take, you
know, the engineering team to
start working on it. Then
cycle time is the amount
of time between when it's
created and when it's completed.
So that would be, you
know, the amount of lead
time then plus how long
it actually takes to work
on. And then we call
work time is the amount
of time that the story
is actually in process. So
on your board. And again,
we just track timestamps between
those. We actually have another
thing called wait time, which
is the amount of time
that you spend during handoffs.
So again, one of the
things that you want to
limit, one of the wastes
is handoffs. So the amount
of time that it takes,
so let's say a designer
marks, something is ready. How
long did it take before
a developer claims it and
pulls it into the development
phase? You know, again, the
faster, the better. So that
the sum total of that
represents your wait time, the
amount of, you know, essentially
wasted time that that story
spent idle on your board.
And then we have a
final metric called efficiency, which
is just a calculation that
uses the other metrics and
gives you just a basic
percentage. And the idea is
to try to optimize that
efficiency as much as possible.
But I mean, we really
just focus on the very
core metrics that you need,
that you need in order
to understand what's going on
with your system. And if,
if people are used to,
you know, more scrum sort
of agile process, things like
velocity is very similar to
your cycle time. You know,
again, without the stack up
and burned down kind of
effect it, it's calculated in
a little bit different way,
but you can treat it
the same way. And of
course the whole goal of
a lean process is to
get your cycle time. Again,
of course it's smallest as
short as possible, I should
say, but also consistent. So
the business can rely on
it then as a, you
know, they know when they
have a request, it will
take about this long to
complete. So if your cycle
time is seven working days,
you know, the businesses to
understand, you know, that when
they come and ask someone
to do it, it's going
to take about seven days.
And that's how you can
avoid the iteration. See, because
you still have that sort
of service level agreement with
your, with your business. You
know, that if they ask
you for something, you know,
they'll get it in a
certain amount of time. It
does require some discipline though.
And the nice thing about
scrum from, from a, for
someone who's new to agile
is that because it's time
boxed when you're done, you
have to, you have to
stop. I mean, there's scrum
masters who are good, tend
to be fairly draconian about
the fact that we're needed.
We need to finish. Now,
the end of the end
of the iteration is now
well with something that's more
feature driven that, that, that,
that sense of closure I
think would be harder to
get. That's probably true. And
I guess the key there
is the MMF, the minimum
marketable feature that really represents,
you know, a batch of
work that you can kind
of celebrate that you've completed.
There's also, there's a concept
called scrum bond, which is,
you know, kind of a
hybrid approach, which a lot
of teams will use. You
know, particularly if they've already
used scrum and they want
to move towards a more
lean process. They'll, they'll use
something like scrum bond, which
keeps things like and estimates,
but also applies, you know,
the concept of the Kanban
board and a pull approach,
which is really the whole
key to lean is, is
the poll it's not so
much, I don't know about
that. I think that, I
think it was Brad Wilson.
I think he was the
guy that said Scrummerfall when
you think you're doing scrum,
but you're really just doing
waterfall. It seems like scrum
bond sounds like an excuse
to be lazy, but you
get to have a cool
board. Yeah, it can be.
I would, yeah. I imagine
that a lot of teams
will go through that, but
you know, it, it realistically,
you know, there has to
be a way that you
can get buy in from
people I think, and, you
know, scrum bond gives you
all of those nice, familiar
elements from, you know, your
scrum process, if you've been
successful with that, but allows
you to focus on, you
know, reduction of waste and,
and, you know, things like
that that are important in
lean In your application. One,
one, one item, one little
card on the board. Is
that one story or one
minimally marketable feature, or is
that the same thing? That's
for our, for our application
at story. So again, we
call it story just for
familiarity sake. Like I was
saying that it really is
just a work item and
it can be anything that,
that the project owner wants.
So if, you know, you
want to implement that as
a task, then that's fine.
If you want to implement
it as a user story,
that then has a collection
of tasks, then that's also
okay. But the unit of
work that moves across the
board, you know, is again
constant in that project. So
typically, I mean, we use
it, of course, for the
development of Zen, we, you
know, dog food did it.
And usually it comes more
towards a story rather than
an MMF forecast, you know?
So, and then there's a
grouping of stories would represent
an MMF, Zen supports, tagging
to and coloring for the
different cards. So an easy
way to define an MNF
is to create, you know,
colors or add a tag
that describes the NMS and
then group your, your short
cards that way, keep them
organized Effectively kind of drawing
a dotted line around them.
And they're, they're associated by
their tag or associated by
their color. Right. Exactly. Yeah.
And I guess the goal
with Zen is again, to
create something that's, that's really
simple and really flexible and
doesn't force you down any
specific path. And so you'll
see a lot of features
like that are left open-ended
without maybe prescribing some guidance,
but not necessarily restricting and
forcing you to do any
certain thing. For example, estimates,
there's a concept called size
in Zen for story cards,
but it's freeform. If you
want to call it small,
medium, large do t-shirt sizing.
That's great. If you want
to do story points, that's
great hours. That's fine too.
If you want to leave
it out completely because you
don't estimate then that's okay.
Also. So one of the
things that I've found when
I was trying to use
some of the older or
existing, you know, products, is
that they all kind of
force the so-called best practices
of agile, you know, on
you. But if you're just
a small team, you might
not want to adopt all
of those different, you know,
agile processes all at once,
or you might want to
do it slowly, or you
might find that, that you
find different ways to work.
Cause again, the whole concept
of lean is, is Kaizen
continuous improvement, which of course
is where the name Zen
comes from. But so that's
one of the reasons why
I felt that something like
Zen was really lacking, you
know, in the marketplace. I
mean, if there's a need
for it, because, you know,
as a small team, you
want to be able to
bring those things in as
you need them and get
rid of them as you
need them. And it needs
to be more adaptable. And
I just really didn't feel
like a lot of the
existing tools were set up
to allow you to do
that. I've created a little
project and I'm kind of
poking around in your application.
And I'm wondering how, you
know, with, with, with things
that the demo will, and
I don't just mean your,
the Zen product, but Kanban
in a system where things
were dependent on each other,
like in manufacturing, you could
say, well, you know, putting
the engine together is not
the same as putting the
dashboard together and they, those
two things can happen independently.
But so often this can't
happen until that happens. And
there's these kind of intricate
interdependencies between features, how do
you deal with that in
a Kanban system? Typically it's
just handled in terms of
priority. And, and I mean,
dependencies are going to happen.
You know, it's, it's something
that you should try to
minimize in general. So I
would say, you know, the
way I've always done it
at least is to just
prioritize the features that had
to be completed first, or
I should say, you know,
stories or tasks that had
to be completed first over
the ones that weren't. So
it's not any kind of
situation at least today where
Zen can track, you know,
hierarchy or, or dependencies. It's
really, again, a lot of
this stuff is left as
an exercise to the user
and it's done purposefully. So
you can, you know, manipulate
it in the way that
you feel most comfortable with
working with it. So for
example, Zen allows you to
move cards up and down,
you know, in the phases
and also in your backlog.
So one of the possible
things that you can do
with that is to prioritize
that's, that's the way we've
used it, at least during
development is, you know, again,
higher priority cards will move
to the top. So then
you find that you are
continually reorganizing the cards, you
know, to, you know, prepare
for the next story that
you have to work on.
And then it's easy. It's
just pulling something off the
top of the backlog. Hmm.
So, so this is, that
is a very Zen kind
of thing. I mean, it
might seem cheesy to deliciousness,
but I'm thinking about all
the different systems I've made
in the past and, and,
and, you know, one might
just want to right. Click
and hit properties and put
in priority. But, but there's,
there's so many things that
are positional or implicit. You're
just saying that if you
want things on the top
to be most important, then
good for you, use it,
how it makes you happy
is what I'm hearing you
say. And is that representative
of your product or of
the Kanban philosophy or a
little of both? I would
probably say Both. I think
that there's a lot of,
anytime you try to boil
a philosophy or a methodology
down into a tool, you
always end up trying to
create all of the different
possibilities. And I've actually spoken
with a couple of, you
know, Kanban experts that actually
go and coach, you know,
to try to get teams
to adopt the Kanban. And
typically they want features like
a hierarchy and columns and,
you know, things like that
and things that are very
complex. And probably if you
have a very mature, combined
process, you would want to
use some of those things.
But I don't see those
as being necessary for Zen,
because again, with the whole
concept of Zen is to
be as simple as possible.
So you can just sit
down and use the tool
without any real manual, without
any training or anything like
that. At least in terms
of using the software, the
training that we want to
try to help people with
is trying to get organizational
change and get lean ideas
into their team. So I'd
say to answer your question.
Yeah, it's a little bit
of both, but you know,
it's something that, that was
very important to me when
I was working on Zen
is to make it again,
as flexible as possible and
not make people work the
way I think they should
work. Have you had any,
any practitioners that are like
these we'll look at your
product and kind of review
it for its convenance? Yeah.
I actually have a couple
of people that, like I
said, that are, you know,
more Kanban coach sort of
people using it and giving
us feedback and that sort
of thing. But again, you
know, I don't, I don't
want to put too much
focus honestly, on Kanban because
for us, Kanban is just
a way to create that
simple tool. You know, it's
not, it's really not the
end all be all, but
that, I think some other
people might, you know, profess
that it is it's, it's
something that can be a
useful tool for, you know,
against small teams, particularly, you
know, but if, if something
is not exactly Konbini, you
know, in Zen, that's not
really, you know, for me,
I don't, I don't care
to be honest with you,
Which isn't, which is in
itself a very Zen attitude.
Right? Exactly. The words then
actually comes from Kaizen, you
know, the continuous improvement concept
and lean and agile zen.com
is the site. So I'm
sure I'll get some people
complaining because agile is not
few and so forth. Folks
will be able to see
that the product had agile,
zen.com. It'll be launching on
the seventh. Yup. That's right.
And if they hit the
site in advance, we've got
a mailing list that they
can sign up for them.
We're of course gonna send
out little coupon codes and
other, you know, sort of
little secrets on the, the
mailing list. So if they
want to sign up for
that for updates. All right.
Fantastic. Well, my guest has
been Neko Hari and the
product is agile Zen. And
then for those of you
who want to learn more
about Kanban use your favorite
search engine or a w
actually the article that I
found the most useful was
my friend James shore, James
shore.com has got an interesting
blog about Kanban systems. And
then within that, he links
off to the pop and
Dick's work our local Belushi,
and also Kenji here and
NABI. Thanks a lot, Nate.
I really appreciate you. I
want to chat. Sure. I
appreciate you having me. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes and I'll see
you again next week.